<!-- # LEFT JOIN in SQL -->

## Introduction

LEFT JOIN, also known as LEFT OUTER JOIN, is an essential SQL operation used to combine rows from two tables. Unlike the INNER JOIN, it returns all rows from the left table, even if there are no matches in the right table, making it crucial for certain types of database queries.

## Conceptual Explanation

LEFT JOIN includes all records from the left table and the matched records from the right table. If there's no match, the result is NULL on the side of the right table. This join is particularly useful when you need to maintain all records in one table regardless of whether they have corresponding entries in another table.


## Syntax and Usage

The syntax for a LEFT JOIN is:

```sql
SELECT table1.column1, table2.column2...
FROM table1
LEFT JOIN table2
ON table1.common_field = table2.common_field;
```

Here, `table1` is the left table, and `table2` is the right table. The `ON` clause specifies the condition for the join.

## Practical Examples

Suppose we have two tables: `sales_2015` and `customer_20_60`. To retrieve all records from `sales_2015` along with any matching records in `customer_20_60` based on `customer_id`, we use:

```sql
SELECT 
  a.order_line, 
  a.product_id, 
  a.customer_id, 
  a.sales, 
  b.customer_name, 
  b.age
FROM sales_2015 AS a
LEFT JOIN customer_20_60 AS b
ON a.customer_id = b.customer_id
ORDER BY a.customer_id;
```

This query ensures that all entries in `sales_2015` are included, even if there's no matching customer in `customer_20_60`.

## Summary

LEFT JOIN is vital for SQL queries where it's essential to include all rows from one table regardless of whether they match rows in another table. It offers flexibility in handling various data retrieval scenarios in database management.
